=head1 Voodoo Installation

=head1 Prerequisites

=over

=item * L<Apache::Session> (1.6)

=item * L<Config::General> (2.27)

=item * L<CPAN> (1.9205)

=item * L<DBI> (1.609)

=item * L<Daemon::Generic> (0.51)

=item * L<Devel::StackTrace>> (1.20)

=item * L<Digest::MD5> (2.36)

=item * L<Email::Valid> (0.15)

=item * L<Exception::Class> (1.26)

=item * L<Exception::Class::DBI> (1.00)

=item * L<File::Pid> (1.01)

=item * L<HTML::Template> (2.7)

=item * L<IO::Handle::Record> (0.13)

=item * L<IPC::SharedCache>> (1.3)

=item * L<JSON::DWIW> (0.32)

=item * L<Proc::UID> (0.05)

=item * L<Time::HiRes>> (1.65)

=item * L<XML::Checker::Parser>

=back

=head2 One of these to support the Native debugging backend

=over

=item * L<DBD::mysql> (4.011)

=item * L<DBD::SQLite> (1.14)

=back

=head2 Optional

=over

=item * L<Log::Log4perl> (1.23) if you want to use the new Log4perl debugging backend

=item * L<SOAP::Lite> (0.710) if you want to server SOAP requests with Apache::Voodoo

=back

=head1 Installation

CPAN is of course the easiest method, or you can use the traditional B<perl Makefile.PL; make; make test; make install>
route.  Either way, once that is done run B<voodoo-control setconfig> to configure some settings about your environment.
This only needs to be done once, unless you want to re-arrange things.

The will need to be set according to your environment.

=over

=item * Apache Prefix Path: Base directory for apache.  This should be set to Apache's ServerRoot.

=item * App Install Path: This is the location where you want to install your Voodoo based applications.  By default it's "sites" under the Apache Prefix.

=item * Session Path: The directory where you want session information to be housed for each application.

=item * Apache User: The user the Apache server runs as.

=item * Apache Group: The group the Apache server runs as.

=back

It is perfectly fine to take the default values for each of these.  The rest of the documentation is written as if
you're using the default values.

=over

=item * Config File Path: Where the config files for each application are to be kept.

=item * Config File Name: Path and name of the main config file for each application.

=item * Update File Path: Where update scripts are kept for each application.

=item * Template File Path: Where you want to keep the template files, images, javascript, etc for each application.

=item * Perl Module Path: Where you want to keep your perl mdules for each application.

=back

Configuration options related to the L<Native debugging backend|Apache::Voodoo::DebuggingTools>

=over

=item * Debug DB Connection

=item * Debug DB Username

=item * Debug DB Password

=item * Debug URL Path

=back
