=head1 NAME

Apache::Voodoo - A web application framework for Apache 1.3 and Mod_Perl 1

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Apache::Voodoo provides a fast, flexible and powerful framework for website development.  Some
features include:

=over 4

=item * Abstraction of mod_perl and apache interaction away from the user's code

=item * Separation of presentation and logic via HTML::Template

=item * Dynamic reloading of modules upon change (bypass-able for production sites)

=item * Automatic session management

=item * Automatic database connection and persistence

=item * Powerful database abstraction system vi L<Apache::Voodoo::Table>

=item * Integrated debugging tools

=item * Simple enough API that the learning curve is pretty shallow

=back

=head1 Documentation Index

=over 4

=item L<Apache::Voodoo::setup> - Basic Setup Guide

=item L<Apache::Voodoo::api> - API

=item L<Apache::Voodoo::Table> - Database Abstraction / Manipulation 

=item L<Apache::Voodoo::Pager> - Generic HTML Pagination Controls

=back

=head1 TO DO

=over 4

=item - Documentation

=item - Abstract templating subsystem to allow choice between HTML::Template, Template Toolkit, etc.

=item - Make IPC::Shared.* usage optional

=item - Documentation

=item - Rework loading scheme to give easy access to the database connect info for external programs. (cron jobs mostly)

=item - Update to run under Apache 2

=item - Let's see...um...Documentation

=back

=head1 BUGS

None that I am aware of with one caveat:

The built in debug template works in Micro$haft Inner.net Exploiter 6, but may not in other
versions.  I didn't put much effort into making it work in IE; I don't use it and quiet frankly, 
neither should anyone else :)

Bug reports, fixes, and any other sort of feedback are most welcome.

=head1 HISTORY

This creature first came to life sometime between 2000 and 2001.  At the time, there was nothing
available that really suited my needs, so I wrote what I wanted :)  Voodoo has been in use and 
refinement by myself and a small group of my colleagues ever since.  It has always been my intent
to release this thing into the wild, but I could never seem to find the time to clean up a few
ugly parts and write all the much needed documentation.

=head1 CREDITS

Fixes, bug reports, ideas and suggestions have been contributed by:

=over 4

=item Paul Tinsley

=item Jeff Anderson (jeffa on perlmonks.org)

=item Kevin Smith

=item Mike Semich

=item Eduardo Arino de la Rubia

=item Doug Gruber 

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Maverick Edwards, /\/\averick@smurfbaneDOTorg

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005 Maverick Edwards.  All rights reserved.

You may use and distribute Voodoo under described in the LICENSE file included with this package.
The summary is it's a legalese version of the Artistic License :)
