=head1 Voodoo Installation


=head1 Prerequisites

   * CPAN:Apache::Session (1.6)
   * CPAN:Config::General (2.27)
   * CPAN:CPAN (1.9205)
   * CPAN:DBI (1.609)
   * CPAN:Daemon::Generic (0.51)
   * CPAN:Devel::StackTrace (1.20)
   * CPAN:Digest::MD5 (2.36)
   * CPAN:Email::Valid (0.15)
   * CPAN:Exception::Class (1.26)
   * CPAN:Exception::Class::DBI (1.00)
   * CPAN:File::Pid (1.01)
   * CPAN:HTML::Template (2.7)
   * CPAN:IO::Handle::Record (0.13)
   * CPAN:IPC::SharedCache (1.3)
   * CPAN:JSON::DWIW (0.32)
   * CPAN:Proc::UID (0.05)
   * CPAN:Time::HiRes (1.65)
   * CPAN:XML::Checker::Parser

=head2 One of these to support the Native debugging backend

   * CPAN:DBD::mysql (4.011)
   * CPAN:DBD::SQLite (1.14)

=head2 Optional

   * CPAN:Log::Log4perl (1.23) if you want to use the new Log4perl debugging backend
   * CPAN:SOAP::Lite (0.710) if you want to server SOAP requests with Apache::Voodoo

=head1 Installation

CPAN is of course the easiest method, or you can use the traditional "perl Makefile.PL; make; make test; make install" route.  Either way, once that is done run C<voodoo-control setconfig> to configure some settings about your environment.  This only needs to be done once, unless you want to re-arrange things.

The will need to be set according to your environment.
   * Apache Prefix Path: Base directory for apache.  This should be set to Apache's C<ServerRoot>.
   * App Install Path: This is the location where you want to install your Voodoo based applications.  By default it's "sites" under the Apache Prefix.
   * Session Path: The directory where you want session information to be housed for each application.
   * Apache User: The user the Apache server runs as.
   * Apache Group: The group the Apache server runs as.

It is perfectly fine to take the default values for each of these.  The rest of the documentation is written as if you're using the default values.
   * Config File Path: Where the config files for each application are to be kept.
   * Config File Name: Path and name of the main config file for each application.
   * Update File Path: Where update scripts are kept for each application.
   * Template File Path: Where you want to keep the template files, images, javascript, etc for each application.
   * Perl Module Path: Where you want to keep your perl mdules for each application.

Configuration options related to the L<Native debugging backend|DebuggingTools>
   * Debug DB Connection
   * Debug DB Username
   * Debug DB Password
   * Debug URL Path

See L<voodoo-control|VoodooControl> for more details.

